# Newtral Tech Test Frontend

## Project Overview

This frontend project is built using Vite, a modern, fast (high-performance), web framework for building web applications. Vite aims to provide a faster and leaner development experience compared to traditional bundlers by leveraging native ES module support in modern browsers during development. It offers features like lightning-fast hot module replacement (HMR), efficient bundling for production, and seamless integration with popular frontend frameworks such as React, Vue.js, and Svelte.

## Prerequisites

Before setting up the project, ensure that you have the following prerequisites installed on your system:

Node.js (version 21.7.1 or higher)
npm (Node Package Manager) or Yarn

## Setup Instructions

Follow these steps to set up and run the existing project:

1. Clone the project repository

```bash
git clone <repository_url>
```

Replace <repository_url> with the URL of your project's Git repository.

2. Navigate to the project directory:

```bash
cd <project_directory>
```

Replace <project_directory> with the name of your project directory.

3. Use the correct Node.js version:

If you're using `nvm` (Node Version Manager), you can switch to the correct Node.js version specified in the project's `.nvmrc` file:

```bash
nvm use
```

4. Install project dependencies:

```bash
npm install / yarn install / pnpm install
```

5. Start the development server:

```bash
yarn dev
```

This command starts the development server. You can access your application at the specified URL (usually localhost:3000).

## Folder Structure

```text
frontend/
├── public/
├── src/
│   ├── components/
│   │   ├── statistics-card/
│   │   │   ├── __tests__/
│   │   │   │   ├── example.test.ts
│   │   │   │   ├── ...
│   │   │   └── __mocks__/
│   │   │       └── example.mock.ts
│   ├── hooks/
│   ├── lib/
│   ├── react-query/
│   ├── routes/
│   ├── services/
│   ├── types/
│   ├── utils/
│   ├── index.css
│   ├── routeTree.gen.ts
│   ├── vite-env.d.ts
│   └── main.tsx
│
├── .dockerignore
├── .gitignore
├── .nvmrc
├── biome.json
├── components.json
├── Dockerfile
├── index.html
├── nginx.conf
├── package-lock.json
├── package.json
├── postcss.config.js
├── README.md
├── tailwind.config.js
├── tsconfig.json
├── tsconfig.node.json
└── vite.config.ts
```

- `public/`: Contains the website public/static assets
- `src/`: Contains all the source files for building the application
  - `components/`: Contains all the application components
    - `ui/`: UI components used across the application
    - `politicians-data-table/`: Components related to displaying data about politicians in a table format. Under the hood uses [React Table](https://tanstack.com/table/latest)
    - `statistics-card/`: Components related to displaying politicians statistics in card format
    - ... other smaller components like navs, filters, etc.
- `hooks/`: Custom React hooks used across the application.
- `lib/`: Utility functions or libraries used across the application.
- `react-query/`: Files related to data fetching and caching using [React Tanstack Query](https://tanstack.com/query/latest).
- `routes/`: Files related to routing configuration and setup from [React Tanstack Router](https://tanstack.com/router/latest).
- `services/`: Service files handling API requests or other data fetching tasks.
- `types/`: TypeScript type definitions used across the application.
- `utils/`: Utility functions or helpers specific to the application logic.
- `index.css`: Global CSS file for styling the application.
- `routeTree.gen.ts`: Autogenerated file containing the route tree structure. `React Tanstack Router` generates this file.
- `vite-env.d.ts`: Environment type definitions for Vite.
- `main.tsx`: Entry point of the application.
- `.dockerignore`: Specifies files and directories to be ignored by Docker during image building.
- `.gitignore`: Specifies files and directories to be ignored by Git.
- `.nvmrc`: Specifies the Node.js version to use with nvm (Node Version Manager).
- `biome.json`: Configuration file for Biome.js linter and formatter.
- `components.json`: Configuration file for `shadcn/ui` components. Refer to [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com) for more information.
- `Dockerfile`: Instructions for building a Docker image for the application.
- `index.html`: Entry HTML file for the application.
- `nginx.conf`: Configuration file for the NGINX web server.
- `package-lock.json`: Automatically generated file that describes the exact tree of dependencies.
- `package.json`: Configuration file for npm packages and scripts.
- `postcss.config.js`: Configuration file for PostCSS, a tool for transforming CSS with JavaScript plugins.
- `README.md`: Documentation file explaining the project and its setup.
- `tailwind.config.js`: Configuration file for Tailwind CSS, a utility-first CSS framework. Refer to [Tailwindcss docs](https://tailwindcss.com) for more information.
- `tsconfig.json`: Configuration file for TypeScript compiler.
- `tsconfig.node.json`: Configuration file for TypeScript targeting Node.js runtime.
- `vite.config.ts`: Configuration file for Vite, a build tool that aims to provide a faster and leaner development experience. Refer to [Vite docs](https://vitejs.dev) for more information

## Tests

This project utilizes `Vitest` and `MSW` for testing. Tests are typically located in the __tests__ folder, while relevant mocks are placed alongside the tests in the __mocks__ folder.

### Vitest

Vitest is a test runner designed specifically for Vite projects. It provides a fast and efficient testing experience by leveraging Vite's native ES module support and HMR capabilities. With Vitest, you can write and run tests with minimal configuration, making it an ideal choice for testing Vite-based applications.


### MSW

MSW is a powerful library for mocking HTTP requests in browser-based applications. It allows you to intercept requests made by your application and respond with predefined mock data or custom logic. By using MSW, you can simulate various network scenarios and ensure that your application behaves correctly under different conditions.

### Running Tests
To run tests, follow these steps:

1. Navigate to the project directory in your terminal.
2. Execute the following command to run the tests:
```bash
npm run test / yarn test / pnpm test
```
This command will find and execute all files that include `.test` or `.spec`.


## Resources

- [Vite](https://vitejs.dev) - Vite is a build tool that aims to provide a faster and leaner development experience.
- [Vitest](https://vitest.dev) - Vitest is a test runner designed specifically for Vite projects.
- [MSW](https://mswjs.io) - Mock Service Worker is a powerful library for mocking HTTP requests in browser-based applications.
- [React](https://reactjs.org) - React is a JavaScript library for building user interfaces.
- [React Tanstack Query](https://tanstack.com/query/latest) - React Tanstack Query is a data fetching and caching library for React.
- [React Tanstack Router](https://tanstack.com/router/latest) - React Tanstack Router is a routing library for React applications.
- [React Table](https://tanstack.com/table/latest) - React Table is a lightweight, fast, and extendable data grid for React.
- [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com) - Tailwind CSS is a utility-first CSS framework for building custom designs.
- [Biome.js](https://biome-js.github.io/biome/) - Biome.js is a linter and formatter for TypeScript projects.
- [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com) - shadcn/ui provides a collection of UI components.
